About Newton Press 1.1 for MacintoshCongratulations on purchasing Newton Press. The Newton Press application enables you to quickly and easily transfer information from your desktop computer to your Newton device. Newton Press provides a fast, convenient means of producing electronic documents that anyone with a Newton device can read. This ReadMe contains important late-breaking information about using the Newton Press application on computers running the Mac OS. This document presents information about: • Installing Newton Press• Obtaining a serial cable or LocalTalk connector box• Using Newton Press Guide• Setting up Newton Press• Increasing the amount of memory available to Newton Press• Formatting a document before adding it to a Newton book• Using translators• Adding a spreadsheet to a Newton book• TroubleshootingInstalling Newton PressFollow the instructions for installing the application provided in Chapter 1, “Getting Started” in the Newton Press User’s Guide. Be sure to turn off any virus-detection software and system extensions before installing the software, as explained in the instructions. If you experience problems installing, see the Newton Press User’s Guide in Chapter 9, “Troubleshooting,” or the troubleshooting section at the end of this document.Obtaining a serial cable or LocalTalk connector boxYou can connect a Newton device directly to your computer using a serial cable, or you can connect it to your AppleTalk network using a LocalTalk connection box. If you already have a serial cable that you use to connect your Newton device and computer, you can continue to use that cable.If you do not have a cable or adapter, you can purchase one from your local dealer or from Apple.Using Newton Press GuideTo easily familiarize yourself with Newton Press, be sure to use the Newton Press Guide. The Newton Press Guide provides on-line help that can answer most common questions about the application. With Newton Press running, you can press Command-Shift-?, press the Help key on your keyboard, or choose Newton Press Guide from the Help menu. The Newton Press Guide lists topics you can choose. These topics provide step-by-step instructions for completing many Newton Press tasks.Setting up Newton PressBefore you can install a Newton book created on your computer to a Newton device, you must set preferences that indicate how you have connected your Newton device to your computer. You cannot transfer information to the Newton device unless you indicate how the computer and Newton device are connected.• If you are using a LocalTalk connection, choose Preferences from the Edit menu and select Connect via Network.• If you are using a serial cable connected to your computer’s printer or modem port, choose Preferences from the Edit menu, choose Connect via Serial, and choose the port to which you have connected your serial cable.These connection instructions are included in the installation procedure in the Newton Press User’s Guide in Chapter 1, “Getting Started.” In the manual and application, we refer to the application on the Newton device which you must activate to start package downloading. On the MessagePad 130 and previous Newton devices, it was called 'Connection'. On newer Newton devices, it is called 'Dock'. In either case, the application has a similar interface and is used in the same manner.Increasing the amount of memory available to Newton Press The Newton Press application is preset to create documents up to 500K in size. If you need to create larger documents, you can increase the amount of memory allocated to the application. 1. Choose Quit from the File menu to close Newton Press, if it is open.2. In the Finder, click the Newton Press application icon.3. Choose Get Info from the File menu. The Get Info window appears.4. Type a larger number in the “Preferred size” box.5. Click the close box to close the window.6. Double-click the Newton Press icon to open the application.Formatting a document before adding it to Newton PressSometimes it is easier to format a document in the application that originally created it, before adding it to a Newton book. For example, you may want to change tables or graphics to suit the size of a Newton device screen.Using translatorsWhen you add documents to Newton Press, Newton Press uses XTND translators to read different file formats. The Newton Press software includes translators to read the following file formats:• ASCII• EPSF• MacPaint 2.0 Deluxe• MacWrite 5.0• MacWrite II• Microsoft Word 4-5• Microsoft Word 6.0• Microsoft Works 2.0• PICT• RTF• Text• TIFF• WordPerfect 3.1• WriteNow 2.0The translators are in the Claris folder in the System Folder. Other translators are available from Claris or third parties.At the time of this release, there is no translator for ClarisWorks. To import a ClarisWorks file, use ClarisWorks to save the document in a file format that Newton Press can read.If you do not have a translator for a specific file format, you will see an error message when you try to add the file to Newton Press or when you drag and drop a file on Newton Press to create a book automatically. If you see an error message, check the original application to see whether you can save your document in a file format that Newton Press can read. Newton Press can read Microsoft Word files that have an OLE component only if you have the OLE extension installed on your computer. The OLE extension is automatically installed by the latest version of Microsoft Word.If a particular translator does not seem to be translating information correctly, try saving your document in a different file format.Adding a spreadsheet to a Newton book There is a limitation of eight tabs per line in Newton Press.You cannot add spreadsheets directly to Newton Press. However, you can add spreadsheet information in either of two ways:• Convert the spreadsheet to a tab-delimited text format that Newton Press can read. Converting a spreadsheet this way works best for small spreadsheets that do not have more than several columns of information. • Convert the spreadsheet to a picture and import the picture into Newton Press. For example, capture an image of the spreadsheet using a screen-capture application, or transfer the spreadsheet into a graphics application and save it as a graphic. Converting a spreadsheet into a graphic enables you to add images of larger spreadsheets to Newton Press which can then be scrolled on a Newton device screen. However, this graphic method of conversion may create large files.Tip: If you use Microsoft Excel, you can use a shortcut to copy spreadsheet information as a picture. Select the information you want in your spreadsheet, then hold down Shift as you open the Edit menu. Choose Copy Picture from the Edit menu. A picture of your information is placed on the Clipboard, and you can then paste it into Newton Press. Troubleshooting• When I try to use the Redo command under the Edit menu, it is always grayed out.This feature has not been implemented in this version of Newton Press.• I have connected my cable to the printer port and selected my printer port as my connection type in Preferences, but I can't install packages on my Newton device.If you select the printer port for a serial connection in your Newton Press preferences, you cannot use LocalTalk and must turn it off in the Chooser by making AppleTalk inactive. Note that this does not apply if you are using EtherTalk for your network.• I copied a graphic to my Clipboard, but I do not see it.If you open the Clipboard window and copy a graphic, the graphic may not immediately appear on the Clipboard. To see the graphic, close the window and reopen it. The graphic will appear.• When I switch computers and use Newton Press, the drag and drop features seem to work differently.Different versions of the MacOS support the drag and drop feature differently. You can drag and drop one or more files directly onto the application icon using any version of the MacOS. On computers running MacOS version 7.5 or later, you can also drag and drop files onto the open Newton Press window.  With versions of the MacOS before 7.5, you cannot drag and drop files onto the Newton Press window.On computers with MacOS version 7.5 or later, you can drag and drop text or graphic images onto your desktop from desk accessories or applications like the Scrapbook or Notepad. Such files are called clippings. You cannot add clippings to Newton Press by dragging and dropping them on the Newton Press icon or Newton Press window.• I have a Newton device that has the Newton Operating System 1.x, and my package icons don’t look like packages on my computer desktop.Your packages appear as generic documents, instead of package icons. The appearance of your package icons makes no difference in the way Newton Press works. You can perform all Newton Press functions. • I added pictures to my Newton Press document, but they don't appear when I view the book on my Newton device.If there is not enough system memory available in your Newton device, large pictures may not appear in your Newton book. You may need to reduce the size of the picture for it to appear on all Newton devices.• I'm running both Newton Press and Newton Backup Utility or Newton Connection Utility and I can't install packages from Newton Press.While Newton Backup Utility or Newton Connection Utility is running, Newton Press will not be able to install packages. Quit all but one of these applications and use it to install your package.• I clicked STOP while a file was being added but the file was added anyway.There may be times when clicking on the STOP button does not stop the file from being added. This may happen either at the very beginning of the add or at the very end.• When I try to add a border around a group of text, multiple borders appear around the selected text.This may happen when editing around a graphic on a page. To fix this, select all the text and turn the border off. Join the text into one paragraph, turn a border on for the paragraph and then break up the individual lines.• My graphic is inverted but I can't turn it back to normal. Also, the graphic isn't inverted when it gets to my Newton device.Newton devices cannot currently display inverted graphics. It is possible to invert a graphic in Newton Press by selecting some text and a graphic and choosing "Invert" from the menu. Selecting a graphic by itself will not enable the invert function. Likewise, selecting an inverted graphic by itself will not allow you to disable the invert function. To turn the graphic back, you must select some text in front of the graphic along with the graphic, invert the text and graphic and repeat the process one more time.• When I tap the overview button on my Newton device, it freezes and I have to reset my Newton.It is possible to make a Table of Content entry that is a second level entry without a first level entry. The way to do this is to make the second entry a sub-topic and then delete the text associated with the first topic. A book with this type of Table of Contents will not function properly on a Newton device with Newton 2.0 OS. The way to fix this is to make the first entry a level-1 topic before you create the book.• I received a message that the package already exists while trying to import it to the Newton device. It is possible to have two packages that have the same ISBN number. The ISBN number will need to be changed or the package with the same ISBN number on the Newton device will need to be removed.• I can not insert a page break. A page break can not be added when there is no content in the preview window, if there is no break in the content, or if there is no content on the next page.• I can not view a large graphic in Newton Press.Newton Press does not support viewing large graphics in the preview window. However after importing the graphic to the Newton device you will be able to view the entire graphic using the directional scroller.• A large Plain Text document without carriage returns will not import into Newton Press. Carriage returns will have to be added to the document in order to import it.• When I try to copy and paste a graphic from Microsoft Word the graphic will not paste.Newton Press will not paste Word picture objects from the clipboard, it will only paste Bitmaps. The graphic will paste if first saved as a Bitmap and then copied and pasted.• The font that I chose for my document looks different on the Newton device.You can choose font styles and or sizes that are not supported on the Newton device. For best results choose only font sizes that the Newton device supports.• After changing text to Subscript or Superscript the edited page may look different on the Newton device than it did in the Newton Press preview. When a document contains multiple lines of Subscript or Superscript the document will look different on the Newton device than it does in the Newton Press preview.• Adding a large document is taking a long time to import.To speed up importing, check the "Always import as plain text" in the preferences window. This will ignore all style information and import the document much faster.• I cannot Copy Paste or Delete after choosing "Select All". To make edits to large portions of a document, you must first use the mouse to highlight these sections and then make your edits. You will be limited to one page at a time.• After pasting text into Newton Press all alignments were lost.After copying text with alignments to the clipboard and pasting them into Newton Press, the alignments will be lost. The Clipboard does not save all format information. In order to save formatting you must add or drag and drop (a compatible type of document) the document to Newton Press.• I added spaces but they don't show up.Spaces added after a Right Align may not show up in the Newton Press preview, but will appear correctly on the Newton device.• I received an error message from the Newton device that the screen was in the wrong orientation.When you use 3rd party applications that modify the size or location of the Button Bar on your Message Pad and you open a Book in a different mode (landscape, portrait etc.) than the Book was created in,  you may receive an error message indicating that your Newton in the wrong orientation and to rotate your screen.• I sometimes see a small gray box appear in the Newton Press preview window.OS 8 and Aaron users may sometimes see a small gray box appear in the Newton Press preview window. In order to make the gray box disappear simply add some content to the preview window or scroll the page slightly.• I tried pasting more than 32k of text to the Newton Press preview window and not all of the information was pasted correctly.You may experience problems when pasting large amounts of text (more than 32k of text) to the Newton Press Preview window. The best way to import large amounts of text to Newton Press is to "Add" the text.• I received the message "Invalid date format" when  using Newton PressWhen using Newton Press with your system date format set to YYYY/MM/DD, you may receive the error message Invalid date format" • When using a Language Kit with Newton Press my machine crashed.When launching Newton Press, with a language kit installed on your machine, you must first change the language to English.• After doing a Custom Remove there were still files left on my hard disk.After doing a Custom Remove you will need to drag the folder that contains the Newton Press application to the trash. All other components have already been removed from the system folder.• I can not select 2 or more lines of text (with no breaks) by double clicking on the text.When selecting 2 or more lines of text (that do not contain any spaces) the last character may not have been selected. In order to select all the lines of text you will need to use the mouse to select the text.• I can't install from a server.You may have trouble installing Newton Press from a server. In order to install Newton Press you will need to copy the install folder and it's contents to your hard drive first, and then run the installer.©1997 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved.  Apple, the Apple logo, AppleTalk, LocalTalk, Macintosh, Message Pad, and Newton are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. The light bulb logo is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. Claris, XTND, and ClarisWorks are registered trademarks of Claris Corporation. Microsoft Word is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.