Newton Connection Utilities for Macintosh Operating SystemThis document contains the latest information on the Newton™ Connection Utilities 1.0 for the Macintosh™ operating system, released on April 15th, 1997.Contents• Getting Started• Using the Import, Export, and Synchronize features—General Information—Names or Name File—Dates or Date Book—To Do Tasks—Notes or Notepad—Claris Organizer—Now Contact and Now-Up-to-Date—Troubleshooting• Using NCU with Newton Works• Making a connection• Backing up and Restoring• Using your desktop computer’s keyboard• Using the Auto Dock feature• Using file formatsGetting Started• Before using the Newton Connection Utilities [NCU] version 1.0, back up your Newton device and desktop application information files and store the backup in a safe place. • NCU currently has conflicts with AutoDoubler. If you are running AutoDoubler, you won’t be able to synchronize your Newton data with your desktop PIM’s. Apple recommends that you don’t use AutoDoubler or, if your version of AutoDoubler supports it, make sure you except NCU from compression.• Install the appropriate Newton operating system updates on your Newton device. The latest system updates can be downloaded from the following URL:  http://www.newton.apple.com/newton/solutions/solutions.html• If you have problems installing NCU, you may need to disable a virus protection program on your computer. After you install NCU, you can reactivate the virus protection program.• Newton Backup Utility and NCU cannot be used at the same time, although you can have both installed on your computer.• The Newton Connection Utilities application must remain in the NCU application folder in order to run properly. If you want to move the application outside the folder, make an alias for NCU and place that alias outside the NCU application folder.• Refer to the NCU User’s Manual for information about the features of NCU. If your manual is on-line in Adobe™ Portable Document Format (PDF), you’ll need Adobe Acrobat™ Reader or Adobe Acrobat Viewer to view and print the document. For more information, contact Adobe Systems, Inc. or visit Adobe’s web site at www.adobe.comUsing the import, export, and synchronize featuresGeneral information• NCU synchronization is designed to work with one Newton Device and one Mac OS computer.  Attempting to synchronize a single Newton Device with multiple Mac OS computers or multiple Newton Devices with a single Mac OS computer may result in unanticipated updates to your data on either your Newton Device or PIM files on your Mac OS computer.• If you defined a desktop Personal Information Manager [PIM] file as the file to synchronize with using NCU, be careful about replacing that PIM file with one that has the same name but different data. Differences in data between the two files will be interpreted as deliberate changes, which will then be updated on your Newton device.• When you import, export, and synchronize large files or documents, synchronizing may fail if there isn’t enough available memory on your desktop computer. If you have large files or documents, increase the amount of memory available to NCU in 2 megabyte (MB) increments.• If you synchronize repeating meetings with the desktop and then change information for the repeating meetings on the desktop, the meeting information may be broken into a series of individual meetings.• If you import delimited ASCII files and the “Column Headings Exist” checkbox within the Advanced Settings is selected (there is an X in the checkbox), the first record in the file is interpreted as a column heading. If your file doesn’t contain column headings, the first record will not be imported.• If you import data from a DOS–formatted floppy diskette to your Newton device, an error message appears and NCU automatically disconnects.• Before you initiate synchronization from your Newton device, make sure that the NCU window is active on your desktop computer.• When you synchronize Newton folders that include categories:- Make sure the folders and categories have exactly the same names and capitalization on your Newton device and your Mac OS computer.- If you use Now Contact 3.5, store records in named folders. Don’t store records on your Newton device in the Unfiled folder. If you do, when you synchronize on the desktop, Now Contact 3.5 places these records in a default folder called “Business.” The next time you synchronize with your Newton device, these records on your Newton device will be automatically stored in the ”Business” folder. Names, or Name File• When exporting name cards, phone numbers with the label “Phone” will not be exported unless you change the default field map. NCU currently only exports phone numbers with the labels, “Home,” “Work,” “Fax,” and “Cellular.”• If any name cards have duplicate phone labels (for example, two numbers both use the “Work” label), only the first number with that label is exported.• When synchronizing name cards with Now Contact, phone labels are transferred to the phone field in Now Contact (for example, <Home> 415-555-1212). These labels are used to identify the proper label when you synchronize again with NCU.• When synchronizing name cards with Now Contact, e-mail labels are transferred to Now Contact with labels in the e-mail field (for example, <Internet> john@isp.net). These labels are used to identify the proper label when you synchronize again with NCU. • When synchronizing name cards with Claris Organizer 2.x, the “Cellular” phone label converts to the label “Mobile” after you synchronize a second time. • When synchronizing or importing name cards with Claris Organizer 2.x, only those phone numbers that contain the labels, 'Work', 'Home', 'Fax' & 'Cellular' will transfer.  Phone numbers in Claris Organizer using labels other then these will not transfer.• When synchronizing or importing name cards with Claris Organizer 2.x, area codes and phone numbers are imported into a single field on the Newton Device.• Name card stationary other then those shipped with Newton OS are not supported.Dates, or Date Book• When you synchronize repeating items between the desktop computer and your Newton device, some of the information on the desktop may be modified, which may result in the duplication of data on your Newton device. To prevent this, modify your Date Book items, especially repeating items, on your Newton device rather than on the desktop. • When importing Date Book items using delimited ASCII format, all meeting lengths must be in minutes format (for example, 160 minutes). If items are in the hourly and minutes format (HH:MM) such as 01:30, they are assigned a default meeting length of 15 minutes.• When importing Date Book items using delimited ASCII format, all meeting times must be in 24hr format.  Meeting times using the 12 hr. format will always import as AM.To Do Tasks• Don’t use repeating To Do tasks with NCU. If you synchronize repeating To Do tasks not all of the information will be synchronized. Single To Do tasks synchronize correctly.• If you start the import process from your Newton device, all of your To Do tasks on the desktop will be set to “Completed”.Notes, or Notepad• NCU does not reliably support importing graphics greater then 640x480 pixels into the Notepad.• Microsoft Word 6.0 will not export graphics created using its OLE object to RTF (Rich Text Format). If you import this type of RTF file, you'll export text only. To export graphics from Microsoft Word 6.0 using RTF, make sure the graphics are pasted or inserted into the Word document.• Graphics in the Notepad may be replaced with “***” placeholders when synchronizing to Claris Organizer 2.0 because it doesn’t support graphics within notes. If the corresponding note on Claris Organizer changes and requires an update of the Notepad, you’ll see “***” placeholders instead of graphics.• Exporting outline or checklist stationary to RTF format will result in an additional carriage return being inserted between your bullet items.• Notepad stationary other then those shipped with Newton OS are not supported.Claris Organizer• When working with a Claris Organizer file, make sure it is closed via the 'Close File' menu item.  Clicking the close box of the document window is not sufficient to close the file.• If you synchronize Claris Organizer with the Date Book and Instant Organizer is running on your desktop computer, an error message may appear if Instant Organizer encounters an alarm time prior to the current time (which may make the alarm trigger during the synchronization). To make sure this doesn’t happen, quit Instant Organizer before synchronizing.Now Contact and Now-Up-to-Date• Now Contact and Now-Up-to-Date keep files open even after you have closed them. In order to work with the file using NCU, make sure you quit the Now application.Troubleshooting• If you have problems in translation or backing up:1. Refer to the file called XLATE.LOG on your desktop computer. Frequently this will include notifications about the information that NCU cannot translate or backup. Copy and paste the data in the “problem” record to a new record or delete the “problem” record. Then try backing up again.2. In cases where NCU is having problems reading data, there may be more than one record that’s causing problems or you may have data created with the Newton 1.x operating system. Try backing up all of the information and applications on your Newton device to a storage card and do a hard reset to delete all of the information in the internal memory of the Newton device. Then do a restore from the card.  • If you have problems importing a delimited ASCII text file ensure you specified the correct delimiters, each field is contained within a set of quotes, [for example, "field one","field two","field three"] and the last record is terminated with an end of record character [usually a carriage return].Using NCU with Newton Works• NCU only supports import and export of the 'Paper' and 'Drawing' stationaries.  At this time the 'Drawing' stationary is not supported on the Message Pad 2000 so although you can import PICTs to the MP2000, it won't be able to display them. Graphics that are part of an RTF file can be imported and displayed to the 'Paper' stationary portion of an MP2000.• RTF files containing graphics totaling greater then 32k will import to the 'Paper' Stationary, but only the first 32k of graphics will import.  Graphics imported via the PICT filter to the 'Drawing' stationary, are not subject to this limitation. • When you import Newton Works Drawings from your MacOS computer, gradients are not imported.• When you export Newton Works Papers to an RTF document, gray-scale information and text from QuickFigure charts pasted into the papers are not exported to the desktop.• Drawings with patterns exported to Claris products as PICTs may lose pattern information upon ungrouping.• If you use line spacing in an RTF document, this line spacing is not preserved when you import it into a Newton Works Paper.• If you import PICTs containing bit-mapped images to your Newton device, they may not properly rotate or flip.• If you import bitmaps that are vertically greater than 320 pixels, the portion greater than 320 pixels will be truncated.Making a connection• If your Newton device and desktop computer are successfully connected, you initiate an action from the desktop, and you don’t see a status bar on the Newton device, try tapping outside of the Connection or Dock slip. A status bar should then appear on your Newton device.• If you experience problems using NCU from your Newton device, initiate actions from your desktop computer.• NCU works best when there is enough available memory on your Newton device. If an error message appears saying your Newton device is out of memory, quit any applications you are no longer using, delete applications you don’t need, or store information on a storage card then delete it from the internal memory of your Newton device.• NCU does not support IrDA as a connection type.• When using the eMate 300, ensure you are connecting to NCU using the 'Dock' package on your Newton Device.  The 'Classroom Dock' package will not connect to NCU.Backing up and Restoring• NCU supports storage cards of 4MB or less.• NCU cannot backup both cards in a Message Pad 2000 if the cards have an identical name.  Please make sure your cards are named differently.• NCU cannot backup Newton Works documents containing graphics greater than 32k. The first time you attempt to backup the document, you will be warned.  During subsequent attempts, you will not be warned.• NCU will fail to backup your Newton Device entirely if a Newton Works document with graphics greater than 32k is stored in your InOut Box. To complete your backup, you must remove this Newton Works document from your InOut Box.• If you have File Sharing on a Macintosh computer turned on, make sure you specify your Backup Folder location to be different than the top level folder of your startup volume (normally your hard disk). Backing up won't work if your backup folder is at the top level of your hard disk while File Sharing is turned on. • If you restore information to your Newton device and it has very little memory, or storage space, the restore may not be complete. Delete outdated or unnecessary information to increase the available storage space and try restoring again.• If you have EnRoute™ packages (EnRoute Core, EnRoute Internet, and EnRoute Rule Editor) installed on your Newton device and you are trying to restore these packages from a backup file, you should remove these packages from the Newton device first before performing the backup; otherwise your Newton will reset in the middle of the restore operation. An alternative is to perform a selective restore that does not include these select EnRoute components.• When you first back up information on your Newton device, NCU creates a new backup file. When you make subsequent backups, NCU creates a copy of your backup file and adds new information to it. Occasionally, it's a good idea to move the existing backup file to a different folder and make a new backup of all the information and packages on your Newton device.Using your desktop computer’s keyboard• Using the desktop computer’s keyboard with the Calculator on Newton devices with the Newton 2.0 operating system is not supported.• Using the desktop computer’s keyboard with Notes, or the Notepad, may be slow after large amounts of text, greater than 4K (kilobytes), are entered.Using the Auto Dock feature• If your password is not saved, AutoDock will not back up or synchronize. Make sure you indicate the password is saved in the appropriate preference or don’t use a password.Improving performance• AppleTalk will provide a faster connection to your Newton Device than a serial connection.• Importing, Exporting, Synchronizing and Backing up will be faster if you have performed at least one backup of your Newton Device.Using file formatsNCU supports the following file formats:• Claris Organizer 2.0																													• Now Contact 3.5 and Now Up-to-Date 3.5															• RTF (Rich Text Format)																																												• Plain text (ASCII) • Delimited text (ASCII)© Copyright 1997 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Newton and QuickTime are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries.Adobe and Acrobat are trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated or is subsidiarites and may be registered in certain jurisdictions.Claris Organizer is a trademark of Claris Corporation.EnRoute is a trademark of Netstrategy Software, Inc.Now Contact and Now Up-to-Date are trademarks of Now Software, Inc.